*Source*: <https://www.navy-radio.com/manuals/tty/m37/574-320-101-iss2-7302.pdf>

<div style="display: flex; justify-content: space-between;">
<div>BELL SYSTEM PRACTICES<br>AT&TCo Standard</div>
<div style="text-align: right;">SECTION 574-320-101<br>Issue 2, February 1973</div>
</div>

<h1 style="text-align: center; font-size: 1.2em; padding-left: 10%; padding-right: 10%;">
37 TYPING UNIT<br>
37P003 AND UP<br>
DESCRIPTION AND PRINCIPLES OF OPERATION
</h1>

## CONTENTS

- [1. GENERAL](#1-general)
- [2. DESCRIPTION](#2-description)
  - [BASIC UNIT](#basic-unit)
  - [WIDE PLATEN](#wide-platen)
  - [CONTROL FUNCTIONS](#control-functions)
  - [OPTIONAL FEATURES](#optional-features)
- [3. TECHNICAL DATA](#3-technical-data)
- [4. PRINCIPLES OF OPERATION](#4-principles-of-operation)
  - [A. Selector Mechanism](#a-selector-mechanism)
  - [B. Transfer Mechanism](#b-transfer-mechanism)
  - [C. Codebar Shift Mechanism](#c-codebar-shift-mechanism)
  - [D. Codebar Mechanism](#d-codebar-mechanism)
  - [E. Codebar Positioning](#e-codebar-positioning)
  - [F. Typebox and Typebox Carriage](#f-typebox-and-typebox-carriage)
  - [G. Horizontal Positioning](#g-horizontal-positioning)
  - [H. Horizontal Dampener Mechanism](#h-horizontal-dampener-mechanism)
  - [I. Vertical Positioning](#i-vertical-positioning)
  - [J. Vertical Dampening](#j-vertical-dampening)
  - [K. Trip Shaft Mechanism](#k-trip-shaft-mechanism)
  - L. Print Hammer Carriage and Printing Drive Mechanism
  - M. Spacing Mechanism
  - N. Backspace Mechanism
  - O. Retraction Mechanism
  - P. Function Box and Function Box Drive Mechanism
  - Q. Ribbon Positioning Mechanism
  - R. Ribbon Feeding and Reversing Mechanism
  - S. Print, Space, and Function Suppression
  - T. Carriage Return Mechanism
  - U. Line Feed Mechanism
  - V. Vertical Tabulation Mechanism
  - W. Horizontal Tabulation Mechanism
  - X. Half-Forward and Reverse Line Feed
  - Y. Function Bar Coding
- 5. REFERENCES
- [6. APPENDIX](#6-appendix)
  - [A. Printed Graphics Extension (Shift-Out, Shift-In)](#a-printed-graphics-extension-shift-out-shift-in)
  - [B. Visual Aid With Graphic Extension](#b-visual-aid-with-graphic-extension)
  - [C. Character Received Contact Mechanism](#c-character-received-contact-mechanism)

Prepared for American Telephone and Telegraph Company by Teletype Corporation \
© 1966, 1970, 1971, and hl72 by Teletype Corporation \
All rights reserved \
Printed in U.S.A. "Page 1

## 1. GENERAL

\[Photo]

Figure 1 - 37 Typing Unit With Variable Features

1.01 This section describes the late design 37 typing unit (Figure 1) and the
wide platen typing unit (Figure 11). This is a general revision which includes
all previously issued supplementary information concerning the description and
principles of operation of the wide platen typing unit. Since this section is a
general revision, marginal arrows normally used to indicate changes or
additions, have been omitted.

*Page 2:*

1.02 The purpose of the unit is to translate electrical code signals into
printed graphics or functions. Other units that support normal operation of the
typing unit include a base with intermediate gear assembly, motor unit, and
electrical service unit. The support units are described in their appropriate
sections.

1.03 The 37 typing unit can be operated at speeds up to 150 words p€r minute.
The selector mechanism of the typing unit receives 10-unit, 8-level serial code.

1.04 Of the eight levels of code information, four levels are used to position
the typebox horizontally, and three levels are used to position the typebox
vertically. The eighth level is not used in typebox positioning. The horizontal
and vertical positioning mechanisms utilize the aggregate motion principle, and
respond immediately to repositioned codebars.

1.05 All eight levels of the ASCII (American National Standard Code for
Information Interchange) system can be sensed by the function mechanism. Seven
levels define a character, and the eighth (parity) level verifies accuracy of
transmission. When parity is used, a function cannot occur unless parity is
correct.

\[Photo]

- PAPER GUIDE
- PAPER STRAIGHTENER
- PLATEN
- PAPER FINGER
- PAPER RELEASE
- **KEYBOARD RESET COUPLER**
  - Extends rotational motion to the keyboard reset mechanism mounted on the
    base unit.
- **SPACING MECHANISM**
  - Advances print hammer and typebox along platen after each graphic is
    printed.
  - Completes spacing cycle in one-sixth revolution of main shaft.
- **SELECTOR MECHANISM**
  - Receives and converts electrical code input to mechanical code output.

(Front Right View)

Figure 2 - 37 Typing Unit

\[Photo]

- **TYPEBOX**
  - Upper and lower case printing with 94 standard character pallets. Two
    additional pallets omitted for the spacing and delete characters.
  - Expanded character set (optional) - an additional 32 special characters in
    addition to the standard graphics of the ASCII plan.
  - Pallets with 10 or 12 characters per inch spacing.
  - Positioned by vertical and horizontal positioning mechanism.
  - Easily removed for cleaning or replacement.
- **PRINT HAMMER MECHANISM**
  - If character is graphic, the print hammer trips and strikes appropriate type
    pallet.
- **MULTIPLE COPY KNOB**
  - Two position adjustable knob. One position for single copy typing. Other
    position for multiple copy typing.
- **HORIZONTAL POSITIONING MECHANISM**
  - Accepts four codebar inputs from codebar mechanism to select vertical row of
    type pallets.
- **HORIZONTAL TABULATION MECHANISM (VARIABLE FEATURE)**
  - Horizontally positions print hammer and typebox. Released by function bar
    and controlled by adjustable index tabs.
- **CARRIAGE RETURN MECHANISM**
  - Returns print hammer and typebox to left margin when CARRIAGE RETURN
    function character or local control key is depressed.

(Front View)

Figure 3 - 37 Typing Unit

*Page 4:*

\[Photo]

- **RETRACTION MECHANISM**
  - Lowers typebox to expose printed graphic after brief idle line.
  - When operated, repositions and 7 codebars to spacing.
- **VERTICAL TABULATION MECHANISM (VARIABLE FEATURE)**
  - Line feeds page or form when released by function bar. Controlled by
    adjustable index tabs.
- **PAPER FEED KNOB**
  - Manually operate platen to feed paper.
- **ON-LINE VERTICAL TAB SET AND CLEAR**
  - Provides operator with on-line control of tabulation.
- **VERTICAL POSITIONING MECHANISM**
  - Accepts three codebar inputs from codebar mechanism to select horizontal row
    of type pallets.
- **CODEBAR MECHANISM**
  - Receives inputs from either selector mechanism or retraction mechanism.
    Provides four outputs to horizontal positioning mechanism and three outputs
    to vertical positioning mechanism. Rear side of codebars provides eight
    outputs to function mechanism.
  - Suppression codebar can be operated by stunt box to inhibit operation of
    certain function bars.

(Left Side View)

Figure 4 - 37 Typing Unit

*Page 5:*

\[Photo]

- **RIBBON MECHANISM**
  - Provides inked source for impressing graphic on paper.
  - Advances ribbon after each graphic is printed.
  - Automatically changes direction of ribbon feed at end of ribbon.
- **TWO COLOR RIBBON MECHANISM (VARIABLE FEATURE)**
  - Magnet operated through function mechanism to shift vertical position of
    ribbon so that one of two colors is opposite of graphic to be printed.
- **RIBBON REVERSE LEVER**
- **RIBBON**
  - Ink impregnated nylon.
- **CODEBAR MECHANISM**
- **TRANSFER MECHANISM**
  - Transfers output from selector mechanism to codebar mechanism.
- **SELECTOR CLUTCH**
- **RANGE FINDER**
  - Select most favorable period for sampling character bits.
- **SELECTOR MAGNETS**

(Right Side View)

Figure 5 - 37 Typing Unit

*Page 6:*

\[Photo]

- **36-PIN CONNECTOR**
  - Electrical interface from the function mechanism to the electrical service
    unit (transmission of control codes for the function box arrangements).
- **15-PIN CONNECTOR**
  - Provides the interface to the selector mechanism from the signal line
    circuits in the electrical service unit.
- **LINE FEED MECHANISM**
  - Advances platen one or two lines when LINE FEED character is received or
    local control key is depressed.
  - Single or double line is preset manually.
  - Completes line feed cycle in one-sixth revolution of main shaft.
  - Fractional line feed - half-forward and reverse.
- **TRIP SHAFT MECHANISM**
  - First operation engages function mechanism.
  - Second operation, if not inhibited, operates print hammer and ribbon feed
    mechanism.
  - Operates vertical and horizontal positioning dampeners.
- **FUNCTION MECHANISM**
  - Senses each new character received. Detects presence of function character
    and operates mechanical linkage or electrical contacts to initiate function.
  - Can suppress subsequent print hammer, spacing, and ribbon feed mechanisms.
  - Can sense parity (eighth) level.
  - Function box contains 42 slots for function bars.

(Rear View)

Figure 6 - 37 Typing Unit

*Page 7:*

## 2. DESCRIPTION

### BASIC UNIT

2.01 The typing unit contains the basic mechanisms to print a graphic or perform
a function. Rotational motion is applied to the main shaft assembly for
distribution to all mechanisms within the unit, and is extended to the keyboard
reset coupler for driving a separately mounted, keyboard reset mechanism.

2.02 The selector (Figure 2) translates a serial code input into a corresponding
mechanical code output. In 8-level, serial code reception, a combination of
eight code bits preceded by a start interval (always spacing) and concluded with
a stop pulse (always marking) establishes a character. The nonprinting character
(if assigned) is a function, and the printing character is a graphic.

2.03 The major mechanisms and variable features are described in Figures 2
through 9. Variable features are options which may be selected to increase the
functions of a basic typing unit.

2.04 The Model 37 can be broken down into five major subassemblies and a main
frame assembly. The subassemblies are: main shaft, function box, selector,
vertical position and a front plate assembly which contains the horizontal
positioning.

2.05 The typing unit is designed to be used with a base unit. Refer to Section
574-331-100 which gives the necessary rigidity to the printer frame. The typing
unit should never be operated under power when loose on the base unit or a
comparable supporting baseplate.

<u>CAUTION</u>: ALWAYS CHECK TO INSURE THAT THE TYPING UNIT IS PROPERLY SECURED
TOA BASE BEFORE OPERATING.

2.06 The base unit supports the typing unit, drive motor, intermediate gear
assembly, and keyboard reset mechanism. The base, with components, is supported
by rubber vibration mounts attached to a pan which is part of the cover
assembly. The rubber shock mounts isolate vibrations originating in the typing
unit, gears, and motor from the cover and table. The typing unit drives the
keyboard reset mechanism through a coupler, refer to Figure 2. A plastic shock
disc is used between the mating coupler to reduce noise and vibrations.

### Main Shaft

2.07 The main shaft (Figure 7) is located in the lower rear portion of the
typing unit and extends the full length of the unit. It is supported by ball
bearings mounted in each side frame. The main shaft includes six clutches, each
when tripped, drives its associated mechanism. Each clutch has two shoes which
bear against the inside surface of a drum when the clutch is engaged. The clutch
and drums are mounted to the main shaft by means of a mounting screw. Two of the
clutches (namely the line feed and the spacing clutches) have six sets of lugs
equally spaced about their periphery for controlling the engagement and
disengagement of the clutch shoes with the drum. Thus, these clutches will turn
only one-sixth of a revolution when tripped, except when the single-double line
feed lever is set for double line feed in which case the line feed clutch will
turn one-third of a revolution. The remaining clutches have two sets of lugs and
will turn half of a complete revolution when tripped.

2.08 The six clutches (Figures 8 and 10) on the main shaft are, from right to
left, selector clutch, codebar clutch, print hammer clutch, spacing clutch,
function clutch, and line feed clutch. The selector clutch provides power for
operating the selector, and also trips the codebar clutch and resets the
retraction mechanism.

\[Photo]

- TAPERED SHAFT (Selector Cam and Clutch Mounted Here)

(Front View)

Figure 7 - Main Shaft

*Page 8:*

\[Figure]

(Right Front View)

Figure 8 - Selector Cam and Clutch

The codebar clutch drives the codebar positioning mechanism, trips the function
clutch and print hammer clutch. The print hammer clutch drives the print hammer,
ribbon feed, ribbon positioning, dampener detent arms and trips the spacing
clutch. The spacing clutch drives the spacing mechanism. The function clutch
drives the function bar reset bail and the function pawl stripper blade. The
line feed clutch drives the line feed mechanism.

### WIDE PLATEN

2.09 The basic description and operation for the 132 character position wide
platen typing unit (Figures 11 and 12) is similar to the standard typing unit.
This unit contains all the features presently available on the standard platen
sprocket feed unit. The wide platen unit differs from the standard unit for
horizontal tabulation, horizontal tab stop control and the backspace mechanisms.
The right side frame has been moved out for the additional width. An
intermediate casting acts as an auxiliary side frame and provides mounting
facilities for the function box, trip shaft and main shaft extensions. The front
plate, cable assembly, spacing drum and pulley assemblies have been changed. The
spacing drum differs from the standard unit; it contains the carriage return
spring and spacing ratchet. For detailed information on the spacing drum and
cable assembly, refer to Section 574-320-705 on disassembly and reassembly.

### CONTROL FUNCTIONS

2.10 Additional time is required by the typing unit to perform certain machine
control functions. Delete (DEL) characters are used as fill characters in tapes
transmitted and received by the typing unit to provide this additional time;
these fill characters are listed in the following table.

TABLE

<u>DELETE FILL CHARACTERS FOR CONTROL FUNCTIONS</u>

| FUNCTIONS                 | STD UNITS | WIDE PLATEN |
| ------------------------- | --------- | ----------- |
| Carriage Return           | 2         | 3           |
| New Line                  | 2         | 3           |
| Form-Feed                 | 1         | 2           |
| Vertical Tab-Clear        | 1         | 2           |
| Vertical Tab-Set          | 1         | 0           |
| Horizontal Tab-Clear      | 1         | 2           |
| Horizontal Tab-Set        | 1         | 0           |
| DC2                       | 1         | 1           |
| DC4                       | 1         | 1           |
| Carriage Return/Line Feed | 1         | 2           |
| Form-Out                  | 0         | 2           |
| Vertical Tab              | 0         | 2           |
| Horizontal Tab            | 0         | 2           |

<u>Note</u>: Any function that uses a transmitter stop control, requires two
deletes after the control function.

### OPTIONAL FEATURES

2.11 The typing unit is designed to accept a full range of options that are
on-line controllable. These options are furnished in the form of modification
kits listed below.

- Horizontal Tab
- Horizontal Tab-Stop Control
- Vertical Tab and Form Feed
- Vertical Tab-Stop Control
- Half-Forward and Reverse Line Feed
- Two-Color Ribbon
- Print (Only) Suppress
- Print, Space and Function Suppression
- Printed Graphics Extension
- Low-Paper Alarm Switch (Friction Feed)
- Paper-Out Alarm Switch (Sprocket Feed)
- Auto Carriage Return and Line Feed
- To Convert Friction Feed to Sprocket Feed
- Escape Mechanism
- Printed Graphics Extension
- Character Received Contacts
- Visual Aid Feature

2.12 In addition to the above features, the function box can be equipped to
perform nonrepeat form feed and carriage return upon reception of line feed,
vertical tab or form feed.

*Page 9:*

\[Photo]

- **MAIN SHAFT ASSEMBLY**
  - Distributes mechanical rotational motion to various clutch-cam and
    clutch-gear assemblies, typebox positioning mechanisms, and spacing
    mechanisms.
  - Two-character cycles per revolution of the main shaft.
  - Positions vertical and horizontal dampeners.

(Bottom View)

Figure 9 - 37 Typing Unit

\[Figure]

- MAIN SHAFT BEARING
- CLUTCH DRUM
- LINE FEED CLUTCH ASSEMBLY
- DRIVEN GEAR
- COLLAR
- CLUTCH DRUM
- FUNCTION CLUTCH ASSEMBLY
- COLLAR
- CLUTCH DRUM
- SPACING CLUTCH ASSEMBLY
- CLUTCH DRUM
- PRINT HAMMER CLUTCH ASSEMBLY
- CLUTCH DRUM
- CODEBAR CLUTCH ASSEMBLY
- MAIN SHAFT BEARING

(Bottom View)

Figure 10 - Main Shaft

<u>Note:</u> When the typing unit is mated with the keyboard, refer to Section
574-331-100 for the required information concerning the adjustment between the
main shaft driven gear and the intermediate gear assembly.

*Page 10:*

\[Photo]

- LEFT PULLEY DRUM
- SPACING MECHANISM
- HORIZONTAL TAB RING
- SPACING AND CARRIAGE RETURN DRUM
- HORIZONTAL TAB MECHANISM
- RIGHT PULLEY DRUM
- PAPER FINGER
- PAPER GUIDE (Each Side)

(Right Front View)

Figure 11 - 37 Wide Platen

## 3. TECHNICAL DATA

**Signal Input Data**

3.01 The typing unit is capable of printing symbols for all 128 ASCII
characters. Normally, however, it will be arranged to print the 94 graphic,
numeric, and alpha characters.

**Power Input Data**

3.02 Mechanical power is supplied to the printer mechanism by an electric motor
operating at 3600 rpm. An intermediate gear unit is used to reduce this speed,
and to provide a choice of printer main shaft speeds. Operating speeds
considerably lower than 600 operations per minute (100 wpm) may require changes
in the selector cam assembly.

| Unit Code | Levels | Bauds | OPM | Main Shaft Speed |
| --------- | ------ | ----- | --- | ---------------- |
| 10.00     | 8      | 150   | 900 | 500 RPM          |
| 11.00     | 8      | 110   | 600 | 343 RPM          |

**Output Data**

3.03 The standard friction feed typing unit prints the message on a roll of
single or multiple copy paper of 8-1/2 inches maximum width, 5 inches maximum
diameter.

3.04 The standard sprocket feed unit prints the message on up to six copies of
fan-folded form-feed paper with margin perforations spaced to fit the sprocket
teeth on the typing unit platen. Platens are available for the following paper
widths: 3-5/8, 4, 4-1/4, 4-5/16, 4-1/2, 5, 5-1/2, 5-3/4, 6, 6-1/4, 6-3/8, 6-1/2,
7, 7-1/2, 8, 8-1/2, 9, and 9-1/2 inches with the distance between holes being
one-half inch less than the paper width.

**Size and Weight**

3.05 Overall dimensions of the standard typing unit exclusive of the base unit
are:

- Length: 15-3/4 inches
- Height: 9-5/8 inches
- Depth: 10-7/8 inches
- Weight: 32 pounds

*Page 11:*

\[Photo]

- SELECTOR/SIGNAL LINE CONNECTOR
- 36-PIN FUNCTION MECHANISM CONNECTOR
- BACKSPACE MECHANISM
- FUNCTION MECHANISM
- LINE FEED MECHANISM
- INTERMEDIATE CASTING
- TRIP SHAFT EXTENSION
- MAIN SHAFT COUPLER
- HORIZONTAL TAB SENSING CABLE
- CABLE MOUNTING BRACKET (Not Shown)
- SUPPORT BRACKET AND TIMER MOUNTING BRACKET

(Rear View)

Figure 12 - 37 Wide Platen

**Temperature Ranges**

3.06 This equipment is intended to be operated in a room environment within the
temperature range of 40°F to 110°F. Serious damage to it could result if this
range is exceeded. In this connection, particular caution should be exercised in
using acoustical or other enclosures.

- (a) The typing unit is designed to operate with standard lubrication without
  damage in an ambient temperature between 40 degrees and 140 degrees F measured
  inside the closed cover.
- (b) Operation at temperatures down to -20 degrees F is possible with special
  lubrication.

**Operational Requirements**

3.07 The unit operates in an environment ranging from 1 percent to 90 percent
relative humidity.

- (a) Operation is not adversely affected by inclination of up to 45 degrees.
  The timing of the machine makes possible the suppression of printing and
  spacing in the same cycle in which a nonprinting code is read by the function
  box.
- (b) Noise and vibration has been kept to a minimum. Noise and vibration
  isolation is provided in the base mounting, cover, and the cabinet.
- (c) No readily combustible material is used in the construction of the unit.

**Wide Platen Units**

3.08 Wide platen sprocket feed typing units have the same technical requirements
as the standard units except for the following physical requirements. Wide
platen units use a 14-7/8 inch form; the difference between the holes being
one-half inch less than the paper width. The basic wide platen typing unit
weighs approximately 36 pounds. The overall dimensions are:

- Length: 21-5/8 inches
- Height: 9-5/8 inches
- Depth: 10-7/8 inches
- Characters Per Line:
  - 132 characters - 10 per inch
  - 158 characters - 12 per inch
- Wire Rope:
  - Uses one rope 124-1/4 inches long.

## 4. PRINCIPLES OF OPERATION

### A. Selector Mechanism

4.01 The selector mechanism (Figures 2 and 5) consists of the magnet coils and
armature, a selector cam and clutch, and associated levers, arms and bails
necessary to convert the electrical intervals of the start-stop code to the
mechanical motions which are transferred to the codebar positioning mechanism.

**Manual Coding and Operation**

4.02 Manual coding and operation provides a visual check of the various
mechanisms under conditions that are similar to a. unit under power. Before the
unit can be coded and operated manually, the following set up procedures are
required.

<u>CAUTION:</u> IF THE TYPING UNIT IS MOUNTED IN A SET, DISCONNECT ALL
ELECTRICAL POWER TO THE SET AND REMOVE THE TYPING UNIT FROM ITS BASE.

- (a) Tie back the reset slide on the retraction mechanism as shown in Figure
  13. This procedure prevents the retraction mechanism from moving the no. 5, 6,
  and 7 codebars to a spacing condition and does not allow the typebox to move
  to its retracted position (a desirable condition when checking print hammer
  operation).

\[Figure]

- TRANSVERSE SHAFT
- TRANSVERSE SHAFT ARM
- RETRACTION SLIDE
- TIE BACK RESET SLIDE
- RESET SLIDE

(Left Side View)

Figure 13 - Typing Unit

*Page 13:*

- (b) Attach a selector armature clip (TP321071) to the back of the selector
  mechanism. The installation is performed by inserting the curved end of the
  armature clip between the armature stop bracket and the armature; the other
  end is placed under the lubricator assembly, refer to Figure 14. The armature
  clip holds the selector armature in the attracted (marking) position. When the
  armature is attracted, the push levers for the eight code levels will move to
  a marking condition when the unit is manually operated through one cycle. This
  allows a character code to be manually placed into the selector by lifting off
  the push lever from the selector lever for the spacing bits in the code.
- (c) Install a handwheel (TP161430) with handwheel grip (TP340235) to the
  clutch drum of the selector, refer to Figure 15. The handwheel provides the
  leverage to manually rotate the main shaft.
- (d) Rotate the main shaft counterclockwise until the selector clutch is
  disengaged. Momentarily move the lift lever (Figure 14) down to simulate a
  start pulse and again, rotate the main shaft until all push levers are marking
  and the selector clutch is disengaged. This action clears the selector of any
  previous code and positions the push levers to a marking condition.
- (e) Manually rotate the main shaft in a counterclockwise direction until all
  the clutches are brought to a disengaged position (turning the handwheel with
  a fast spin should latch all the clutches).
- (f) Check to insure that all clutches are fully latched; the main shaft should
  rotate freely without drag. If the clutches are not fully disengaged, use the
  procedure described in the Note in 4.11.

4.03 To manually code and operate a typing unit proceed as follows:

- (a) Determine the spacing bits of the code to be selected from the code chart
  (Figure 16).
- (b) Set the push levers that are to be spacing (spacing bits of the desired
  code) by using a spring hook to push back and release the push lever at the
  point where the spring is hooked, refer to Figure 17. This procedure moves the
  push lever forward which lifts off the push lever from the selector lever and
  causes the code level to go spacing (there is no change in the transfer levers
  at this time).

\[Figure]

- ARMATURE
- ARMATURE STOP BRACKET
- ARMATURE CLIP
- LIFT LEVER
- LUBRICATOR ASSEMBLY

Figure 14 - Selector Armature Clip

*Page 14:*

\[Figure]

- SELECTOR CLUTCH DRUM
- RESET CLAMP SCREW
- HANDWHEEL WITH RUBBER GRIP

Figure 15 - Selector With Handwheel

- (c) Push back the intermediate arm latch bail by moving the auxiliary reset
  lever in the same manner as described in coding the push levers, refer to
  Figure 17. This procedure sets up the transfer mechanism for the code selected
  and positions the codebar shiftbars.
- (d) Pull back and hold the codebar clutch trip lever (Figure 18) and start
  turning the handwheel in a counterclockwise direction, then release the trip
  lever.
- (e) Continue turning the main shaft until the character is printed or function
  is performed.
- (f) To repeat the operation of a previously selected character or function,
  lift the appropriate clutch trip lever on the back of the unit (Figure 18).
  For example, if the character "A" has been coded into the selector and
  printed, and it is desired to repeat the printing operation, lift the printing
  clutch trip lever and turn the main shaft through one cycle and the character
  will print again. This method is used to check printing density or print
  hammer alignment with the type pallets. The same principle applies to a
  function coded into the selector. If a repeat is desired lift the function
  clutch trip lever and turn the main shaft.
- (g) To clear the selector of a previous code, push down the selector clutch
  lift lever and rotate the main shaft through one cycle, refer to 4.02 (d),
  (e), and (f).

4.04 The selector clutch and cam sleeve assembly is comprised of the two-stop
clutch, the start bail and lift lever cam, the eighth, seventh, sixth, fifth and
fourth selector lever cams, the cam for the spacing and marking locklevers, the
third, second, and the first selector lever cams, push lever reset bail cam, and
codebar clutch trip cam. Refer to Figures 17 through 21.

<u>Note</u>: On 5- and 6-level cam sleeves, no cams appear in the 6, 7, and 8th
or 7 and 8th positions respectively.

4.05 During the time in which a closed line circuit (marking) condition exists,
the selector magnet coils are energized and hold the selector armature against
the selector magnet pole pieces. In this stop position, the selector armature
blocks the start lever.

*Page 15:*

| ●__   | ●_●  | ●●_  | ●●●  | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 |
| ----- | ---- | ---- | ---- | - | - | - | - | - |
| NULL  | SP ● | @ ●  | `    |   |   |   |   |   |
| SOH ● | !    | A    | a ●  |   |   |   |   | ● |
| STX ● | "    | B    | b ●  |   |   |   | ● |   |
| ETX   | # ●  | C ●  | c    |   |   |   | ● | ● |
| EOT ● | $    | D    | d ●  |   |   | ● |   |   |
| ENQ   | % ●  | E ●  | e    |   |   | ● |   | ● |
| ACK   | & ●  | F ●  | f    |   |   | ● | ● |   |
| BELL ●| '    | G    | g ●  |   |   | ● | ● | ● |
| BS ●  | (    | H    | h ●  |   | ● |   |   |   |
| HT    | ) ●  | I ●  | i    |   | ● |   |   | ● |
| LF *  | * ●  | J ●  | j    |   | ● |   | ● |   |
| VT ●  | +    | K    | k ●  |   | ● |   | ● | ● |
| FF    | , ●  | L ●  | l    |   | ● | ● |   |   |
| CR ●  | -    | M    | m ●  |   | ● | ● |   | ● |
| SO ●  | .    | N    | n ●  |   | ● | ● | ● |   |
| SI    | / ●  | O ●  | o    |   | ● | ● | ● | ● |
| DLE ● | 0    | P    | p ●  | ● |   |   |   |   |
| DC1   | 1 ●  | Q ●  | q    | ● |   |   |   | ● |
| DC2   | 2 ●  | R ●  | r    | ● |   |   | ● |   |
| DC3 ● | 3    | S    | s ●  | ● |   |   | ● | ● |
| DC4   | 4 ●  | T ●  | t    | ● |   | ● |   |   |
| NAK ● | 5    | U    | u ●  | ● |   | ● |   | ● |
| SYN ● | 6    | V    | v ●  | ● |   | ● | ● |   |
| ETB   | 7 ●  | W ●  | w    | ● |   | ● | ● | ● |
| CAN   | 8 ●  | X ●  | x    | ● | ● |   |   |   |
| EM ●  | 9    | Y    | y ●  | ● | ● |   |   | ● |
| SUB ● | :    | Z    | z ●  | ● | ● |   | ● |   |
| ESC   | ; ●  | [ ●  | {    | ● | ● |   | ● | ● |
| FS ●  | <    | \    | \| ● | ● | ● | ● |   |   |
| GS    | = ●  | ] ●  | }    | ● | ● | ● |   | ● |
| RS    | > ●  | ^ ●  | ~    | ● | ● | ● | ● |   |
| US ●  | ?    | _    | DEL ●| ● | ● | ● | ● | ● |

DEL: non typing

\*Where appropriate, this character may have the meaning "NEW LINE" (NL).

●Mark to obtain even parity, the characters and functions shown with shaded
backgrounds have 8th bit marking.

Example: Bits 1 through 7 of the bit permutation for the character Marc 1011001,
respectively. \
1 = Mark, 0 = Space

New Controls and Their Meanings (Old Name in Parentheses):

- SOH = Start of Heading (SOM)
- STX = Start of Text (EOA)
- ETX = End of Text (EOM)
- ENQ = Enquiry (WRU)
- ACK = Acknowledge (same meaning but new code)
- BS = Backspace (FE<sub>0</sub>)
- DLE = Data Line Escape (DC<sub>0</sub>)
- OCl = Device Control 1 (X-ON)
- DC2 = Device Control 2 (TAPE)
- DC3 = Device Control 3 (X-OFF)
- DC4 = Device Control 4 (<s>TAPE</s>)
- NAK = Negative Acknowledge (ERR — not same function)
- ETB = End of Transmission Block (LEM — not same function)
- CAN = Cancel (S<sub>0</sub> — not same function)
- EM = End of Medium (S<sub>1</sub> — not same function — same as old LEM)
- SUB = Substitute (S<sub>2</sub> — not same function)
- ESC = Escape (S<sub>3</sub> position — same meaning but new code)
- FS = File Separator (S<sub>4</sub>)
- GS = Group Separator (S<sub>5</sub>)
- RS = Record Separator (S<sub>6</sub>)
- US = Unit Separator (S<sub>7</sub>)
- DEL = Delete (RUBOUT)

Figure 16 - ASCII (X3.4-1968) Chart

*Page 16:*

4.06 At the start of a signal for any character or function, the start (spacing)
interval releases the selector armature which under tension of its spring, moves
away from the magnet pole piece and thus, unblocks the start lever. The start
lever turns clockwise under the tension of its spring to move the start bail
into the indent of its cam.

4.07 As the start bail rotates about its pivot point, the attached stop arm is
moved out of engagement with the clutch shoe lever. The selector cam clutch
engages and begins to rotate. By this time, the start lever tip has moved into
the selector armature extension cut-out and the armature starts moving in
correspondence with the signal bits. Between the second and third signal bit,
the lift lever is pivoted clockwise by the start bail cam and lifts the start
lever above the armature extension. At this same time, the start bail rides to
the high point of its cam where it remains to hold the start lever away from the
selector armature until late in the character cycle. In approximately the middle
of the cycle the lift lever rides down its cam, thus, lowering the start lever.
When the stop impulse at the end of the signal is received, the selector
armature is pulled up to block the start lever. Thus, the start bail is
prevented from dropping into the low part of its cam (stop position of cam
sleeve, and the attached stop arm is held so as to stop the clutch shoe lever).

4.08 The selector cam clutch disc upon which the latchlever rides has an indent
at each of its two stop positions. When the clutch shoe lever strikes the stop
arm, the inertia of the cam disc assembly causes it to continue to turn until
its lug makes contact with the lug on the clutch shoe lever. At this point, the
latchlever drops into the indent in the cam disc, and the clutch is held
disengaged until the next start interval is received.

4.09 The series of up to eight selecting levers and the marking and spacing
locklevers ride their respective cams on the selector clutch and cam sleeve
assembly. As the marking and spacing signal intervals are applied to the
selector magnet, the selector cam sleeve rotates and actuates the selector
levers. When a spacing interval is received, the marking locklever is blocked by
the end of the armature and the spacing locklever swings toward the right above
the armature and locks it in the spacing position until the next signal
transition is due. Extensions on the marking locklever prevent the selector
levers from following their cams. When a marking impulse of the signal is
received, the spacing locklever is blocked by the end of the armature and the
marking locklever swings to the right below the armature to lock it in the
marking position until the next signal transition is due. During this marking
condition the selector levers are not blocked by the marking locklever
extensions, but are permitted to move against their respective cams. The
selecting lever that is opposite the indent in its cam, while the armature
maintains a marking condition, pivots to the right or selected position
momentarily. Each selecting lever has an associated push lever which drops off a
shelf on the top of the selecting lever when it rides into its cam indent. As
the cam sleeve turns, each selecting lever together with its latched push lever
is moved toward the left and held there until all eight code intervals have been
received. After all the selected push levers have been positioned to the left
and all unselected push levers have been positioned to the right, they are held
until the next start interval is received. When the subsequent start interval
again causes the cam sleeve to rotate, the push lever reset bail, in following
its cam, unlatches the selected push levers. The push levers then return to the
unselected (right) position under their spring tension.

4.10 The no, 1 push lever differs in that it uses an auxiliary no. 1 push lever
and auxiliary reset lever. When the no. 1 selector lever is permitted to follow
its cam (marking condition) the auxiliary no. 1 push lever is selected in the
same manner as other push levers. At this time the strip bail is on the high
part of its cam, resetting all the selected push levers above the shelves on
their associated selector levers. When the no. 1 selector lever returns
counterclockwise to the intermediate position on the cam, a tab on the auxiliary
no. 1 push lever engages the no. 1 push lever and drives it to the left in a
marking condition. At approximately midcycle the auxiliary push lever is
stripped by its auxiliary strip bail, thus, the auxiliary no. 1 push lever is
prepared for the next incoming marking pulse. The auxiliary lever action permits
normal strip operation to occur between no. 1 and no. 2 pulse selection.

4.11 The selector cam sleeve clutch has two stop positions and likewise the
individual cams have two complete identical contours in 360 degrees, providing
for two complete cycles of operation for each revolution of the cam sleeve.

*Page 17:*

<u>Note:</u> When rotating the main shaft by hand, the clutches will not fully
disengage upon reaching the stop position. In order to relieve the drag on the
clutch and permit the main shaft to rotate freely, apply pressure on the lug of
the clutch disc to cause it to engage its latchlever. This procedure should be
followed prior to applying power to the unit.

#### Start-Stop Operation (Figure 19)

4.12 Engage-disengage selector cam sleeve with main shaft; responds to start and
stop bits of a character.

Operation

Engage selector cam sleeve with main shaft.
- (1) Start (spacing) bit of new character deenergizes selector magnets and
  releases armature.
- (2) Armature, under tension of armature spring, falls against downstop
  bracket.
- (3) Absence of armature extension unlatches start lever which, under tension
  of start lever spring, pivots inward moving the stop arm bail into the indent
  of its cam. As the stop arm bail pivots inward, the attached stop arm pivots
  out of path of clutch shoe lever.
- (4) Clutch shoe levers expand to engage disc and cam sleeve assembly with
 rotating clutch drum.

Raise, reset, and lower start lever. Block clutch shoe lever.
- (1) Cam sleeve starts rotating. Selector cam sleeve mechanically operates its
  cam followers in a prearranged sequence as code level signals (marking or
  spacing) operate the armature (4.14).
- (2) Between the second and third character bit, lift lever elevates start
  lever above opening in armature extension. Stop arm bail rides to high part of
  stop arm cam forcing start lever away from armature, restoring stop arm to
  blocking position.

Disengage selector cam sleeve from main shaft.
- (1) Lift lever falls into indent of stop arm cam and lowers start lever.
- (2) Stop (marking) bit at end of character energizes selector magnets and
  attracts armature.
- (3) Stop arm cam presents indent to stop arm bail.
- (4) Stop arm bail begins to enter indent, but is prevented from entering fully
  by start lever whose inward movement is blocked by armature extension. Stop
  arm engages shoe lever to disengage cam sleeve from rotating clutch drum.

\[Figure]

- AUXILIARY RESET LEVER
- NO. 1 PUSH LEVER
- NO. 2 PUSH LEVER
- NO. 3 PUSH LEVER
- NO. 4 PUSH LEVER
- NO. 5 PUSH LEVER
- NO. 6 PUSH LEVER
- NO. 7 PUSH LEVER
- NO. 8 PUSH LEVER

(Top View)

Figure 17 - Selector Push Levers

*Page 18:*

\[Photo]

- SELECTOR CLUTCH LIFT LEVER
- ARMATURE CLIP (Installed)
- CODEBAR CLUTCH TRIP LEVER
- CODEBAR CLUTCH
- PRINTING CLUTCH TRIP LEVER
- SPACING CLUTCH TRIP LEVER
- FUNCTION CLUTCH TRIP LEVER
- FUNCTION CLUTCH
- LINE FEED CLUTCH
- RETRACTION MECHANISM

(Rear View)

Figure 18 - 37 Typing Unit

- (5) Clutch disc latched by latchlever.
- (6) Selector mechanism prepared to receive start (spacing) bit of subsequent
  character.

#### Push Lever Reset (Figure 20)

4.13 Strip the previous character from push levers after a start bit causes the
selector cam sleeve to engage the main shaft.

Operation

As cam sleeve begins rotating, high part of push lever reset bail cam lifts push
lever reset bail against tension of spring. Bail pivots, lifting and unlatching
the marking push levers from in front of their selector levers. The bail returns
to the unoperated position when the lobe drops from the high part of the cam.
All of the push levers, except the auxiliary push lever (4.15) will then be in
the spacing condition.

#### Selection (Figure 21)

4.14 Code selections are performed by sequentially positioning push levers as
marking and spacing intervals are applied to selector magnets.

Operation

View (A) - Idle Condition
- (1) Selector cam sleeve shown before starting selection cycle. Marking
  locklever, spacing locklever, and eight selector levers held against cam
  sleeve by their individual springs; the lobes of each lever are riding on high
  part of selector cam sleeve.
- (2) As marking and spacing signal intervals are applied to selector magnets,
  selector cam sleeve rotates and actuates selector levers.

*Page 19:*

<u>Note</u>: The range finder selects the most favorable period for sampling
character bits as received by the selector magnets. The range finder clamp arm,
when pivoted clockwise, permits the range finder scale adjustment. Turning the
range finder scale, mechanically adjusts the position of the stop arm, stop arm
bail, lift lever, and cam sleeve.

\[Figure]

- DRUM
- CLUTCH SHOE
- CLUTCH SHOE LEVER
- CLUTCH DISC
- STOP ARM BAIL
- START LEVER
- RANGE FINDER
- SELECTOR MAGNETS
- SIGNAL LINE
- RANGE FINDER CLAMP ARM
- LATCHLEVER SPRING
- DISC STOP-LUG
- LATCHLEVER
- STOP ARM
- STOP ARM BAIL SPRING
- LIFT LEVER
- START LEVER SPRING
- STOP ARM CAM (Part of Disc-Cam Sleeve Assembly)
- DOWNSTOP BRACKET
- ARMATURE
- ARMATURE SPRING
- CONTINUOUS ROTATIONAL MOTION ON MAIN SHAFT

Figure 19 - Selector Start-Stop Operation

*Page 20:*

\[Figure]

- PUSH LEVER RESET BAIL SPRING
- PUSH LEVER SPRING
- PUSH LEVER (Shown Spacing)
- PUSH LEVER RESET BAIL
- SELECTOR LEVEL NO. 8
- PUSH LEVER RESET BAIL CAM (Separated From Cam Sleeve)

Figure 20 - Selector Push Lever Reset

View (B) - Marking Condition
- (1) When marking impulse is received, the spacing locklever is blocked by end
  of armature extension. Top of marking locklever moves under armature
  extension, supporting armature in marking position until next signal
  transition is due.
- (2) During marking condition, selector levers are not blocked by marking
  locklever extensions, but are permitted to ride against their respective cams,
  Only that selector lever which is opposite the indent in its can affect its
  push lever,
- (3) As the lobe of the selector lever is drawn into its cam indent, the push
  lever drops off the shelf of its selector lever. When the selector lever is
  forced out of its indent, the selected push lever slides to the marking
  position.

View (C) - Spacing Condition
- (1) When spacing interval is received, the marking locklever is blocked by end
  of armature extension. Spacing locklever swings above armature extension and
  locks it in the spacing position until next signal transition is due.
- (2) During spacing condition, selector levers are prevented from riding their
  respective cams by extensions on marking locklever.
- (3) Lobe of selector lever opposite its cam indent cannot enter indent fully.
  Push lever will not latch behind selector lever, but will remain on shelf.

*Page 21:*

\[Figure]

- SPACING LOCKLEVER
- MARKING LOCKLEVER
- PUSH LEVER
- SELECTOR MAGNETS
- ARMATURE (Marking)
- SELECTOR CAM SLEEVE
- SELECTOR LEVER

VIEW A

\[Figure]

- SPACING LOCKLEVER
- ARMATURE ATTRACTED (Marking)

VIEW B

\[Figure]

- ARMATURE RELEASED (Spacing)
- MARKING LOCKLEVER

VIEW C

Figure 21 - Selector Operation

*Page 22:*

\[Figure]

- AUXILIARY PUSH LEVER (Peculiar to Push Lever No. 1 Only)
- PUSH LEVER NO. 1
- TAB ON AUXILIARY PUSH LEVER
- SELECTOR LEVER NO. 1
- SHOULDER ON SELECTOR LEVER NO. 1 FOR AUXILIARY PUSH LEVER
- AUXILIARY PUSH LEVER SHOWN IN STRIPPED OR SPACING CONDITION
- AUXILIARY PUSH LEVER SHOWN MARKING

Figure 22 - Selector Auxiliary Push Lever

#### Auxiliary Push Lever (Figure 22)

4.15 Auxiliary push levers sense marking or spacing position of selector lever
no. 1. Normal strip operation (push lever reset) occurs during reception of code
bit no. 1 and does not permit push lever no. 1 to sense position of its selector
lever.

Operation

Auxiliary push lever responds to marking impulse for push lever no. 1. When bit
no. 1 is marking, auxiliary push lever drops behind shoulder of selector lever
as push lever no. 1 is stripped. Tab on auxiliary push lever carries push lever
no. 1 to marking position. When push lever reset bail (4.13) returns to
unoperated position, push lever no. 1 is behind, but not touching, its selector
lever. Approximately half way through selection cycle, auxiliary push lever is
stripped by auxiliary reset lever (4.16). Push lever no. 1 is then latched by
selector lever no. 1.

4.16 The conditions for the trip and reset mechanism are to strip the count on
typebox retraction mechanism; reset auxiliary push lever and intermediate arm
latch bail, and trip codebar clutch.

*Page 23:*

\[Figure]

- AUXILIARY RESET LEVER
- TAB (Resets Auxiliary Push Lever)
- PAWL (Resets Intermediate Arm Latch Ball)
- RETRACTION RESET LEVER
- CODEBAR CLUTCH TRIP CAM
- CODEBAR CLUTCH TRIP LEVER

Figure 23 - Selector Trip Cam and Reset Mechanisms

#### Trip Cam and Reset Mechanism (Figure 23)

4.17 The codebar clutch trip cam conditions the trip and reset mechanism to
strip the count on typebox retraction mechanism; reset auxiliary push lever and
intermediate arm latch bail, and trip codebar clutch.

Operation

As cam sleeve rotates, high part of cam ope rates retraction reset lever.
Approximately midcycle, second high part of cam operates auxiliary reset lever.
Tab on auxiliary reset lever strips auxiliary push lever, and pawl resets
intermediate arm latch bail in transfer mechanism (4.18). About the same time,
first high part of codebar clutch trip cam operates codebar clutch trip lever to
initiate operation of codebar shift mechanism (4.19).

*Page 24:*

### B. Transfer Mechanism

\[Figure]

- CODEBAR SHIFT BAR (Marking - Toward Rear)
- CODEBAR SHIFT BAR (Spacing - Toward Front)
- AUXILIARY RESET LEVER
- INTERMEDIATE ARM LATCH BAIL
- TRANSFER LEVER
- PUSH LEVER (Marking)
- PUSH LEVER (Spacing)
- INTERMEDIATE ARM
- INTERMEDIATE ARM STOP
- INTERMEDIATE ARM LATCH BAIL
- SELECTOR LEVER

(Right Front View)

Figure 24 - Transfer Mechanism

4.18 The coded input from the selector levers are conveyed to the codebar shift
mechanism through the transfer mechanism (Figure 1) by the selected positions of
the push levers to the transfer levers that set up the codebar shiftbars.

Operation

Code Bit Marking
- (1) Push lever latches in front of selector lever. As selector lever and push
  lever move toward front, push lever engages intermediate arm.
- (2) Intermediate arm and transfer lever assembly pivots, causing transfer
  lever to push codebar shiftbar toward rear. Extension on intermediate arm
  latches on top of intermediate arm latch bail.

Code Bit Spacing
- (1) Push lever remains on shoulder of selector lever. No action is transferred
  to intermediate arm.
- (1) Intermediate arm and transfer lever assembly remains unselected, extension
  on intermediate arm remains under latch bail, and codebar shiftbar is held
  toward front.

Strip Intermediate Arms
- (1) Intermediate arm latch bail is operated by auxiliary reset lever (4.16) at
  approximately midcycle.
- (2) Previously marking transfer levers return spacing if their respective push
  levers are now spacing.

*Page 25:*

### C. Codebar Shift Mechanism

\[Figure]

- CODEBAR CAM (In Mid Cycle)
- CAM FOLLOWER LEVER
- FOLLOWER SHAFT
- CODEBAR
- CODEBAR SHIFT BAR
- REAR CODEBAR SHIFT LEVER (Positions Marking Codebar Shift-Bars)
- FRONT CODEBAR SHIFT LEVER (Positions Spacing Codebar Shift-Bars)
- TRANSFER LEVER
- INTERMEDIATE ARM
- SHIFT LEVER LINK
- LEFT (Mark)
- REAR (Mark)
- FRONT (Space)
- RIGHT (Space)

Figure 25 - Codebar Shift Mechanism

4.19 The purpose of the codebar shift mechanism (Figure 25) is to transfer
mechanical positions of codebar shiftbar to codebars.

Operation

- (1) Codebar clutch trip lever, operating from cam of selector cam sleeve,
  trips codebar clutch (4.17). Codebar cam going from low to high part, imparts
  transverse motion to cam follower lever. Cam follower lever, by way of
  follower shaft, raises and lowers shift lever link.
- (2) As shift lever moves upward, front codebar shift lever moves all spacing
  codebar shiftbars to the right. Meanwhile, the rear codebar shift lever moves
  all marking codebar shiftbars to the left.
- (3) When shift lever link returns to lowest position, front and rear codebar
  shiftbars are open (front lever to left and rear lever to right) to permit
  codebar shiftbars to be repositioned. Each codebar shiftbar can pivot within
  slot of codebar permitting previous character to remain in codebar mechanism
  as bits of subsequent character are received.

*Page 26:*

### D. Codebar Mechanism

4.20 In the Model 37 typing unit there are 8 codebars and 3 blocking bars
(Figure 26). They are numbered 1 through 11 from the bottom up. The first seven
codebars have two basic uses. First to control the horizontal and vertical
positioning clutches, and second along with the other four bars to be read by
the function box to perform functions. Bar no. 8 is a parity check by the
function box on function codes. Bar no. 9 is used to suppress functions in the
function box and is also used as a gate for Escape sequences. Bar no. 10 is used
as a gate for Escape sequences and may suppress functions if required. Both bars
(9 and 10) are moved by shift forks controlled through the function box when so
equipped. Bar no. 11 is an auxiliary bar which may serve a variety of purposes.
Automatic carriage return is one of the uses for which the no. 11 bar is
intended.

### E. Codebar Positioning

4.21 As the selector finishes its cycle it positions all selected (marking) push
levers towards the front of the machine (Figure 27). As the push levers start to
move they impart a motion to the intermediate levers in the codebar positioning
mechanism which in turn imparts motion to the bottom of the transfer levers
causing the top of the transfer levers to move toward the rear of the machine.
The top portion of the selected transfer levers contacts their corresponding
codebar shiftbars and move the shiftbars toward the rear of the machine; thereby
placing the step in the shiftbars in the path of the shift lever. The shift
lever now begins to move under power from the codebar clutch and drives all
marking shiftbars and corresponding codebars to the left. A second shift lever
drives all spacing (nonselected) shiftbars and corresponding codebars to the
right. The codebars have now been fully positioned and the codebar shift levers
return to their previous position. The selected intermediate levers are now in a
latched condition and therefore are holding the transfer levers and shift levers
marking (toward the rear) unt11 midway through the next cycle of the selector
where upon they will be stripped allowing the shiftbars to return to the spacing
condition (toward the front of the unit). Note that the shiftbars return to
spacing in their front to rear direction, but retain their positions from left
to right. This allows each codebar to remain in position (mark or space) until a
change in code for the level occurs.

4.22 The purpose of codebars is to transfer binary information from codebars to
clutch trip slides associated with horizontal and vertical positioning. The
operation of the marking codebar will drive the clutch trip slide downward. Each
clutch trip slide will operate when its codebar is shifted.

Escape Sequence

4.23 Escape sequences when received in the stunt box can give a mechanical or
electrical output on the last character in the sequence. Sequences preferably
should be two characters long, however three and more characters each starting
with ESC (Escape) can be implemented. The last character in the sequence should
be an ESC terminating character which precludes column 2 of the ASCII chart. The
following is a list of adopted two-character ESC sequences:

- ESC1 — Horizontal Tab Set
- ESC2 — Horizontal Tab Clear
- ESC3 — Print Red
- ESC4 — Print Black
- ESC5 — Vertical Tab Set
- ESC6 — Vertical Tab Clear
- ESC7 — Reverse Line Feed
- ESC8 — Half-Reverse Line Feed
- ESC9 — Half-Line Feed
- ESC: — Full Duplex (FDX)
- ESC; — Half-Duplex (HDX)

4.24 Escape sequences are implemented in the unit in the stunt box in
conjunction with a no. 9 and no. 10 blocking bar.

4.25 Escape is received in the stunt box by a function bar in slot 9 for the no.
9 blocking bar and in slot 25 for the no. 10 blocking bar. Its function lever
shifts the no. 10 blocking bar byway of a fork shift mechanism and latches with
a stripper blade latch,

4.26 The no. 9 and no. 10 blocking levers are similar to a codebar and are
positioned above the codebar assembly, These blocking bars act as a gate that
opens for the duration of one machine cycle.

4.27 The no. 10 blocking bar, when selected, unblocks the function bar of the
second character of the sequence. These function bars are special in that they
have a no. 10 blocking tine to be gated by the no. 10 blocking bar.

*Page 27:*

\[Figure]

- TIE BAR
- SHIFT IN/SHIFT OUT (Slot No. 32)
- NO. 10 SHIFT FORK (Escape)
- NO. 9 SHIFT FORK
- CODEBAR MARKING
- CODEBAR SPACING
- CLUTCH TRIP LEVERS
- NO. 1 CLUTCH TRIP SLIDE
- NO. 2 CLUTCH TRIP SLIDE
- NO. 3 CLUTCH TRIP SLIDE
- NO. 4 CLUTCH TRIP SLIDE
- NO. 9 BLOCKING BAR (Escape or Suppression)
- NO. 10 BLOCKING BAR (Escape)
- NO. 11 BLOCKING BAR (Automatic Carriage Return)

Figure 26 - Codebar Inputs - Horizontal Positioning

*Page 28:*

\[Figure]

- CODEBAR SHIFT LEVER
- CODEBAR SHIFTBAR (Marking)
- CODEBAR SHIFTBAR (Spacing)
- CODEBAR SHIFT LEVER
- TRANSFER LEVELS
- GUIDE BRACKET
- SHIFT LEVER
- MOUNTING SCREWS

(Front View)

Figure 27 - Codebar Positioning Mechanism

4.28 After second character of the sequence following escape has been selected,
the escape function lever is unlatched by the stunt box stripper blade which
closes the gate again for any second character sequence selection.

4.29 The second character in the sequence is always print and space suppressed.
For a three character sequence its implementation is as follows: Escape will
open the gate for the second character to come in which in turn unblocks the
adjacent to the left third character function bar for selection. The function
lever of the third character will print and space suppress its own selection and
will be the output link of the sequence.

### F. Typebox and Typebox Carriage

4.30 All alpha, numeric, and special characters are printed by type pallets that
are arranged in the typebox (Figure 28). The typebox has 6 horizontal rows with
16 positions for a total of 96 pallet positions. An 8-row 128 pallet typebox is
available with minor modifications to the unit. The typebox carriage rides on
bearings horizontally over the typebox rail (Figure 29). The carriage is spaced
across the platen in conjunction with the print hammer mechanism by cables
attached to the spacing drum. In order to print any selected character, the
typebox carriage is so positioned that the character on the pallet is directly
over the required location on the paper. Hence, it is necessary to position the
typebox horizontally and vertically. The oscillating rail, which is connected to
the horizontal positioning mechanism, positions the typebox to the left or
right. The typebox rail positions the typebox ina vertical plane, through the
vertical clutches and eccentric links attached to a block, which drives the
typebox rail up and down.

*Page 29:*

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th></th>
      <th>1S<br>2M<br>3M<br>4M</th>
      <th>1S<br>2M<br>3S<br>4M</th>
      <th>1S<br>2M<br>3M<br>4S</th>
      <th>1S<br>2M<br>3S<br>4S</th>
      <th>1S<br>2S<br>3M<br>4M</th>
      <th>1S<br>2S<br>3S<br>4M</th>
      <th>1S<br>2S<br>3M<br>4S</th>
      <th>1S<br>2S<br>3S<br>4S</th>
      <th>1M<br>2M<br>3M<br>4M</th>
      <th>1M<br>2M<br>3S<br>4M</th>
      <th>1M<br>2M<br>3M<br>4S</th>
      <th>1M<br>2M<br>3S<br>4S</th>
      <th>1M<br>2S<br>3M<br>4M</th>
      <th>1M<br>2S<br>3S<br>4M</th>
      <th>1M<br>2S<br>3M<br>4S</th>
      <th>1M<br>2S<br>3S<br>4S</th>
      <th></th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th>0</th>
      <td>SO<br>_234_<br>__8</td>
      <td>LF<br>_2_4_<br>___</td>
      <td>AK<br>_23__<br>___</td>
      <td>SX<br>_2___<br>__8</td>
      <td>FF<br>__34_<br>___</td>
      <td>BS<br>___4_<br>__8</td>
      <td>ET<br>__3__<br>__8</td>
      <td>NL<br>_____<br>___</td>
      <td>SI<br>1234_<br>___</td>
      <td>VT<br>12_4_<br>__8</td>
      <td>BL<br>123__<br>__8</td>
      <td>EX<br>12___<br>___</td>
      <td>CR<br>1_34_<br>__8</td>
      <td>HT<br>1__4_<br>___</td>
      <td>EQ<br>1_3__<br>___</td>
      <td>SH<br>1____<br>__8</td>
      <th>5S<br>6S<br>7S</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>1</th>
      <td>RS<br>_2345<br>___</td>
      <td>SB<br>_2_45<br>__8</td>
      <td>SY<br>_23_5<br>__8</td>
      <td>D2<br>_2__5<br>___</td>
      <td>FS<br>__345<br>__8</td>
      <td>CN<br>___45<br>___</td>
      <td>D4<br>__3_5<br>___</td>
      <td>DL<br>____5<br>__8</td>
      <td>US<br>12345<br>__8</td>
      <td>ES<br>12_45<br>___</td>
      <td>EB<br>123_5<br>___</td>
      <td>D3<br>12__5<br>__8</td>
      <td>GS<br>1_345<br>___</td>
      <td>EM<br>1__45<br>__8</td>
      <td>NK<br>1_3_5<br>__8</td>
      <td>DI<br>1___5<br>___</td>
      <th>5M<br>6S<br>7S</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>2</th>
      <td>N<br>_234_<br>_7_</td>
      <td>J<br>_2_4_<br>_78</td>
      <td>F<br>_23__<br>_78</td>
      <td>B<br>_2___<br>_7_</td>
      <td>L<br>__34_<br>_78</td>
      <td>H<br>___4_<br>_7_</td>
      <td>D<br>__3__<br>_7_</td>
      <td>@<br>_____<br>_78</td>
      <td>O<br>1234_<br>_78</td>
      <td>K<br>12_4_<br>_7_</td>
      <td>G<br>123__<br>_7_</td>
      <td>C<br>12___<br>_78</td>
      <td>M<br>1_34_<br>_7_</td>
      <td>I<br>1__4_<br>_78</td>
      <td>E<br>1_3__<br>_78</td>
      <td>A<br>1____<br>_7_</td>
      <th>5S<br>6S<br>7M</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>3</th>
      <td>^<br>_2345<br>_78</td>
      <td>Z<br>_2_45<br>_7_</td>
      <td>V<br>_23_5<br>_7_</td>
      <td>R<br>_2__5<br>_78</td>
      <td>\<br>__345<br>_7_</td>
      <td>X<br>___45<br>_78</td>
      <td>T<br>__3_5<br>_78</td>
      <td>P<br>____5<br>_7_</td>
      <td>_<br>12345<br>_7_</td>
      <td>[<br>12_45<br>_78</td>
      <td>W<br>123_5<br>_78</td>
      <td>S<br>12__5<br>_7_</td>
      <td>]<br>1_345<br>_78</td>
      <td>Y<br>1__45<br>_7_</td>
      <td>U<br>1_3_5<br>_7_</td>
      <td>Q<br>1___5<br>_78</td>
      <th>5M<br>6S<br>7M</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>4</th>
      <td>.<br>_234_<br>6__</td>
      <td>*<br>_2_4_<br>6_8</td>
      <td>&<br>_23__<br>6_8</td>
      <td>"<br>_2___<br>6__</td>
      <td>,<br>__34_<br>6_8</td>
      <td>(<br>___4_<br>6__</td>
      <td>$<br>__3__<br>6__</td>
      <td>SP<br>_____<br>6_8</td>
      <td>/<br>1234_<br>6_8</td>
      <td>+<br>12_4_<br>6__</td>
      <td>'<br>123__<br>6__</td>
      <td>#<br>12___<br>6_8</td>
      <td>-<br>1_34_<br>6__</td>
      <td>)<br>1__4_<br>6_8</td>
      <td>%<br>1_3__<br>6_8</td>
      <td>!<br>1____<br>6__</td>
      <th>5S<br>6M<br>7S</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>5</th>
      <td>&gt;<br>_2345<br>6_8</td>
      <td>:<br>_2_45<br>6__</td>
      <td>6<br>_23_5<br>6__</td>
      <td>2<br>_2__5<br>6_8</td>
      <td>&lt;<br>__345<br>6__</td>
      <td>8<br>___45<br>6_8</td>
      <td>4<br>__3_5<br>6_8</td>
      <td>0<br>____5<br>6__</td>
      <td>?<br>12345<br>6__</td>
      <td>;<br>12_45<br>6_8</td>
      <td>7<br>123_5<br>6_8</td>
      <td>3<br>12__5<br>6__</td>
      <td>=<br>1_345<br>6_8</td>
      <td>9<br>1__45<br>6__</td>
      <td>5<br>1_3_5<br>6__</td>
      <td>1<br>1___5<br>6_8</td>
      <th>5M<br>6M<br>7S</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>6</th>
      <td>n<br>_234_<br>678</td>
      <td>j<br>_2_4_<br>67_</td>
      <td>f<br>_23__<br>67_</td>
      <td>b<br>_2___<br>678</td>
      <td>l<br>__34_<br>67_</td>
      <td>h<br>___4_<br>678</td>
      <td>d<br>__3__<br>678</td>
      <td>`<br>_____<br>67_</td>
      <td>o<br>1234_<br>67_</td>
      <td>k<br>12_4_<br>678</td>
      <td>g<br>123__<br>678</td>
      <td>c<br>12___<br>67_</td>
      <td>m<br>1_34_<br>678</td>
      <td>i<br>1__4_<br>67_</td>
      <td>e<br>1_3__<br>67_</td>
      <td>a<br>1____<br>678</td>
      <th>5S<br>6M<br>7M</th>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th>7</th>
      <td>~<br>_2345<br>67_</td>
      <td>z<br>_2_45<br>678</td>
      <td>v<br>_23_5<br>678</td>
      <td>r<br>_2__5<br>67_</td>
      <td>|<br>__345<br>678</td>
      <td>x<br>___45<br>67_</td>
      <td>t<br>__3_5<br>67_</td>
      <td>p<br>____5<br>678</td>
      <td>DE<br>12345<br>678</td>
      <td>{<br>12_45<br>67_</td>
      <td>w<br>123_5<br>67_</td>
      <td>s<br>12__5<br>678</td>
      <td>}<br>1_345<br>67_</td>
      <td>y<br>1__45<br>678</td>
      <td>u<br>1_3_5<br>678</td>
      <td>q<br>1___5<br>67_</td>
      <th>5M<br>6M<br>7M</th>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

Figure 28 - 8-Row Typebox Arrangement

<u>Note</u>: Typebox arrangement ASCII 68 as viewed from print hammer.

*Page 30:*

\[Figure]

- LEFT PULLEY
- TYPEBOX RAIL
- LEFT HAND BEARING STUD
- UPPER LEFT BALL BEARING ROLLER
- ASSEMBLY SCREW AND NUT
- PALLETS
- TYPEBOX
- PRINT HAMMER
- TYPEBOX CARRIAGE DRAW ROPE
- OSCILLATING RAIL
- SHOULDER SCREW, LOCKWASHER, AND NUT

(Left Front View)

Figure 29 - Typebox, Typebox Carriage and Oscillating Rail

*Page 31:*

### G. Horizontal Positioning

4.31 The purpose of the horizontal positioning (Figure 30) is to translate the
mark-space setting of four codebars (1 through 4) into the selection of one
position out of sixteen possible transverse positions of the typebox. The four
codebars concerned are each connected to the aggregate motion mechanism by a
bellcrank which in turn drives a clutch stop slide. The slide has two extensions
so placed that when the slide is at one extreme of its movement one extension
will stand in the path of a clutch arm, and at the other extreme the opposite
extension will stand in the path of the same clutch arm displaced by 180
degrees. By this means each codebar controls the stopping position of a clutch
to one side or the other.

\[Figure]

- CODE LEVEL 1
- CODE LEVEL 2
- CODE LEVEL 3
- CODE LEVEL 4

(Front View)

Figure 30 - Horizontal Positioning Mechanism

4.32 There are four clutches in the horizontal positioning mechanism (Figure
31). Each clutch carries an eccentric which drives a rod carrying the movement
impart by the eccentric to the aggregate motion linkage (Figure 32). The
aggregate motion linkage consists of a system of three levers of double sided
design pivoted one on the other by precision miniature ball bearings in such a
pattern that the four input movements originating at the eccentric and under the
control of the codebars are made to produce a movement at the output of the
mechanism which in turn is connected to the oscillating rail (Figure 29).

4.33 The rail which runs the full length of the printer is supported by two arms
one at each end which in turn are pivoted on the front plate. At the connection
of the rail and the arms are two pulleys upon which rides the rear spacing
cable. One end of the cable is fastened to the spacing drum. From this point, it
passes part way around the spacing drum, upward and around the right oscillating
rail pulley, over to the left oscillating rail pulley, and downward to the
spring drum. After passing part way around the spring drum, the cable is doubled
backward around it and passes upward to the left printing carriage rail pulley
over to the right printing carriage rail pulley, and downward to the spacind
drum to which it is again fastened. As the oscillating rail is moved in a
horizontal arc by the horizontal aggregate, the cable is moved as a unit with
respect to the oscillating rail. Attached to the cable but free to move on the
rail is a sled. This sled is in turn connected to the typebox carriage by the
arm.

<u>CAUTION</u>: DO NOT OPERATE TYPING UNIT WITH TYPEBOX REMOVED, UNLESS TYPEBOX
LATCH TOGGLE IS CAMMED OVER THE TYPEBOX CARRIAGE.

### H. Horizontal Dampener Mechanism

4.34 This mechanism is located behind the carriage return spring drum (Figure
33). The purpose of this mechanism is to dampen out oscillation of the typebox
and to make final correction of type alignment. As the typebox reaches a
printing position a roller mounted on an arm and controlled from a cam on the
print hammer clutch engages a detent wheel which in turn is connected through a
gear to a rack on the oscillating rail support arm. This locks in the position
of the typebox and immediately releases after the print hammer strikes the
pallet. The dampener mechanism is designed so that the horizontal positioning
can override the detent mechanism without serious damage although this condition
should not be permitted to exist for more than a few printer cycles.

*Page 32:*

\[Figure]

- OSCILLATING RAIL
- STOP LUG
- DRIVE LINK
- CLUTCH SHOE LEVER
- LATCH LEVER
- CLUTCH DISC
- CLUTCH DRUM AND GEAR ASSEMBLY
- CODE LEVEL 4
- CLUTCH STOP SLIDE
- CODE LEVEL 1
- LATCHLEVER
- CODE LEVEL 2
- CODE LEVEL 3
- IDLER GEAR
- SHAFT
- COUPLER (Extends continuous rotational motion to the keyboard reset mechanism)
- ECCENTRIC

(Front Left View - Front Plat Removed)

Figure 31 - Horizontal Positioning Mechanism

Operation

Binary input of mark or space, positions each drive link toward left or right of
pivot points, respectively. Collective positions of drive links provide one of
sixteen possible output positions.

\[Figure]

- TYPEBOX
- AGGREGATE MOTION LEVER
- SECONDARY LEVER
- PIVOT POINT OF CLUTCH DISC, SHAFT, AND ECCENTRIC
- CODE LEVEL 4 (Shown Spacing) SHIFTS OUTPUT 2 UNITS
- PRIMARY LEVER
- DRIVE LINK
- CODE LEVEL 1 (Shown Marking) SHIFTS OUTPUT 8 UNITS
- CODE LEVEL 2 (Shown Spacing) SHIFTS OUTPUT 4 UNITS
- CODE LEVEL 3 (Shown Spacing) SHIFTS OUTPUT 1 UNIT

<u>Note</u> 1: The code levels shown (pivot points and eccentrics) in the
spacing position except code level 1, which is marking.

<u>Note</u> 2: The leverage distances of primary, secondary, and aggregate
motion lever are equal.

Figure 32 - Horizontal Positioning Mechanism Linkage Schematic

*Page 34:*

Operation

View as shown is a stop condition. As oscillating rail is driven to left or
right, it will pivot oscillating arm which in turn will rotate the horizontal
dampener detent disc. When printing clutch trips, the detent arm will move up it
will allow detent lever to move into horizontal dampener detent disc.

\[Figure]

- OSCILLATING RAIL
- HORIZONTAL DAMPENER DETENT DISC
- OSCILLATING ARM
- DETENT LEVER
- DETENT ARM

Figure 33 - Horizontal Dampener Mechanism

### I. Vertical Positioning

4.35 The vertical positioning (Figure 34) codebars (5, 6, and 7) are connected
in a manner almost identical to those in the horizontal mechanism. Three
clutches in turn cause movement to be applied to an aggregate motion mechanism,
which gives eight output positions (Figure 35). The output end of this mechanism
is made to drive a vertically mounted rack on the left side of the machine. This
rack is connected to the rail carrying the typebox and is connected to a similar
rack on the right side of the machine through a cross shaft and associated
pinions. In this manner the aggregate motion mechanism causes the rail to be set
in the selected vertical position, but parallelism is maintained between the
rail and the machine center line.

*Page 35:*

\[Figure]

- CODE LEVEL 7
- CODE LEVEL 6
- CODE LEVEL 5

(Left Side View)

Figure 34 - Vertical Positioning Mechanism

\[Figure]

- TYPEBOX
- PRIMARY LEVER
- AGGREGATE MOTION LEVER
- DRIVE LINK
- ECCENTRIC
- PIVOT POINT OF CLUTCH DISC, SHAFT, AND ECCENTRIC
- CODE LEVEL 7 SHIFTS OUTPUT 2 UNITS
- CODE LEVEL 6 SHIFTS OUTPUT 4 UNITS
- CODE LEVEL 5 SHIFTS OUTPUT 1 UNIT

Figure 35 - Vertical Positioning Mechanism Linkage Schematic (All Levels Shown
are Spacing)

*Page 36:*

### J. Vertical Dampening

4.36 The vertical dampening mechanism (Figure 36) is similar in principle to
horizontal dampener and is located on the cross shaft mentioned in 4.34.

Operation

View as shown is in a stop condition. As printing clutch trips, the dampener cam
follower rides high portion of dampener cam, rotating dampener shaft
counterclockwise. As dampener shaft rotates, a spring connected from the detent
arm to the detent lever, causes the detent lever roller to move into the
vertical dampening detent disc.

\[Figure]

- VERTICAL DAMPENING DETENT DISC
- DETENT SHAFT
- DETENT LEVER ROLLER
- DETENT LEVER
- DETENT ARM
- DAMPENER CAM
- DAMPENER CAM FOLLOWER

Figure 36 - Vertical Dampening

*Page 37:*

### K. Trip Shaft Mechanism

4.37 The trip shaft mechanism (Figures 6 and 37), located on the back of the
unit, performs one or two operations when the codebar clutch is tripped:
engagement of the function clutch or the print hammer clutch and the spacing
clutch. The reason the function clutch operates first is to determine if a
function has been selected. If a function has been selected the function bar
operates its function lever which operates the suppression bail. When the
suppression bail is operated (pushed forward), the suppression hook operates and
blocks the printing and spacing clutches from operating. Engagement of the
function clutch is started when a carriage return, line feed or any function or
suppressed character is initiated from the function box. If a character
selection is received, the function box does not operate the suppression bail
and the print and spacing clutches are allowed to operate, refer to 4.42.

4.38 When the codebar clutch is tripped the trip shaft cam rotates, and the trip
shaft starts its sequence of operations. The operation of the function clutch
and print hammer clutch is controlled by the trip shaft cam attached to the
codebar clutch on the main shaft. The spacing clutch is tripped by the cam
follower arm mounted on the print hammer clutch. The movement of the trip shaft
is a clockwise or counterclockwise pivoting action which is caused by the trip
shaft cam follower mounted to the trip shaft, refer to Figure 37.

\[Figure]

- SUPPRESSION LATCH
- TRIP SHAFT CAM FOLLOWER
- SUPPRESSION BAIL
- TRIP SHAFT CAM
- PRINT HAMMER CLUTCH TRIP LEVER
- TRIP SHAFT
- SPACING CLUTCH TRIP CAM
- FUNCTION CLUTCH TRIP LEVER

Figure 37 - Trip Shaft Mechanism

*Page 38:*

Engage Function Clutch

4.39 Refer to Figures 37 and 38; as the codebar clutch rotates, the trip shaft
cam follower rides the high portion of the trip shaft cam, which pivots the trip
shaft ina counterclockwise direction. When the shaft rotates, the function
clutch trip arm pivots, engaging a post on the intermediate lever, causing the
function clutch trip lever to move out of engagement with the function clutch
shoe lever engaging the function clutch.

\[Figure]

- FUNCTION CLUTCH TRIP ARM
- POST
- INTERMEDIATE LEVER
- FUNCTION CLUTCH TRIP LEVER

Figure 38 - Function Trip Mechanism

Engage Print Hammer Clutch

4.40 The trip shaft continues to rotate (Figure 39, the trip shaft cam follower
rides into a low portion of the cam, pivoting the trip shaft in a clockwise
direction. This movement causes the print hammer clutch trip arm to engage the
print hammer clutch trip lever, and moves it out of engagement with the print
hammer clutch shoe lever, operating the print hammer clutch.

\[Figure]

- PRINT HAMMER CLUTCH TRIP ARM
- PRINT HAMMER CLUTCH TRIP LEVER

Figure 39 - Print Hammer Trip Mechanism

*Page 39:*

*Page 62:*

|        | LEAVE SPACING TINE (Note 1) |
| ------ | --------------------------- |
| NUL    | 1·2·3·4·5·6·7·8 |
| SOH    | 2·3·4·5·6·7     |
| STX    | 1·3·4·5·6·7     |
| ETX    | 3·4·5·6·7·8     |
| EOT    | 1·2·4·5·6·7     |
| ENQ    | 2·4·5·6·7·8     |
| ACK    | 1·4·5·6·7·8     |
| BEL    | 4·5·6·7         |
| BS     | 1·2·3·5·6·7     |
| HT     | 2·3·5·6·7·8     |
| LF     | 1·3·5·6·7·8     |
| VT     | 3·5·6·7         |
| FF     | 1·2·5·6·7·8     |
| CR     | 2·5·6·7         |
| SO     | 1·5·6·7         |
| SI     | 5·6·7·8         |
| DLE    | 1·2·3·4·6·7     |
| DC1    | 2·3·4·6·7·8     |
| DC2    | 1·3·4·6·7·8     |
| DC3    | 3·4·6·7         |
| DC4    | 1·2·4·6·7·8     |
| NAK    | 2·4·6·7         |
| SYN    | 1·4·6·7         |
| ETB    | 4·6·7·8         |
| CAN    | 1·2·3·6·7·8     |
| EM     | 2·3·6·7         |
| SUB    | 1·3·6·7         |
| ESC    | 3·6·7·8         |
| FS     | 1·2·6·7         |
| GS     | 2·6·7·8         |
| RS     | 1·6·7·8         |
| US     | 6·7             |
| SPACE  | 1·2·3·4·5·7     |
| !      | 2·3·4·5·7·8     |
| "      | 1·3·4·5·7·8     |
| #      | 3·4·5·7         |
| $      | 1·2·4·5·7·8     |
| %      | 2·4·5·7         |
| &      | 1·4·5·7         |
| (APOS) | 4·5·7·8         |
| (      | 1·2·3·5·7·8     |
| )      | 2·3·5·7         |
| *      | 1·3·5·7         |
| +      | 3·5·7·8         |
| ,      | 1·2·5·7         |
| -      | 2·5·7·8         |
| .      | 1·5·7·8         |
| /      | 5·7             |
| 0      | 1·2·3·4·7·8     |
| 1      | 2·3·4·7         |
| 2      | 1·3·4·7         |
| 3      | 3·4·7·8         |
| 4      | 1·2·4·7         |
| 5      | 2·4·7·8         |
| 6      | 1·4·7·8         |
| 7      | 4·7             |
| 8      | 1·2·3·7         |
| 9      | 2·3·7·8         |
| :      | 1·3·7·8         |
| ;      | 3·7             |
| <      | 1·2·7·8         |
| =      | 2·7             |
| >      | 1·7             |
| ?      | 7·8             |
| @      | 1·2·3·4·5·6     |
| A      | 2·3·4·5·6·8     |
| B      | 1·3·4·5·6·8     |
| C      | 3·4·5·6         |
| D      | 1·2·4·5·6·8     |
| E      | 2·4·5·6         |
| F      | 1·4·5·6         |
| G      | 4·5·6·8         |
| H      | 1·2·3·5·6·8     |
| I      | 2·3·5·6         |
| J      | 1·3·5·6         |
| K      | 3·5·6·8         |
| L      | 1·2·5·6         |
| M      | 2·5·6·8         |
| N      | 1·5·6·8         |
| O      | 5·6             |
| P      | 1·2·3·4·6·8     |
| Q      | 2·3·4·6         |
| R      | 1·3·4·6         |
| S      | 3·4·6·8         |
| T      | 1·2·4·6         |
| U      | 2·4·6·8         |
| V      | 1·4·6·8         |
| W      | 4·6             |
| X      | 1·2·3·6         |
| Y      | 2·3·6·8         |
| Z      | 1·3·6·8         |
| [      | 3·6             |
| \      | 1·2·6·8         |
| ]      | 2·6             |
| ^      | 1·6             |
| _      | 6·8             |
| `      | 1·2·3·4·5·8     |
| a      | 2·3·4·5         |
| b      | 1·3·4·5         |
| c      | 3·4·5·8         |
| d      | 1·2·4·5         |
| e      | 2·4·5·8         |
| f      | 1·4·5·8         |
| g      | 4·5             |
| h      | 1·2·3·5         |
| i      | 2·3·5·8         |
| j      | 1·3·5·8         |
| k      | 3·5             |
| l      | 1·2·5·8         |
| m      | 2·5             |
| n      | 1·5             |
| o      | 5·8             |
| p      | 1·2·3·4         |
| q      | 2·3·4·8         |
| r      | 1·3·4·8         |
| s      | 3·4             |
| t      | 1·2·4·8         |
| u      | 2·4             |
| v      | 1·4             |
| w      | 4·8             |
| x      | 1·2·3·8         |
| y      | 2·3             |
| z      | 1·3             |
| {      | 3·8             |
| \|     | 1·2             |
| }      | 2·8             |
| ~      | 1·8             |
| DEL    | NONE            |

\[Figure]

- MARKING SPACING
- 11 BLOCKING BAR
- 10 " "
- 9 " "
- 8 CODEBAR
- 7 " "
- 6 " "
- 5 " "
- 4 " "
- 3 " "
- 2 " "
- 1 CODEBAR

<u>Note 1:</u> One tine must be removed for each code level. Remove marking tine
(leave spacing tine) for the levels indicated on the chart. Remove spacing tine
(leave marking tine) for the levels not shown on the chart. See drawings on
table following.

<u>Note 2:</u> Universal function bars TP326076 (11 tines) and TP196342 (9
tines) can be coded with any function. Note 3: For coding number 9, 10, and 11
blocking bars, refer to table of function bar configurations.

Figure 60 - Function Bar Code Chart (Even Parity)

## 6. APPENDIX

### A. Printed Graphics Extension (Shift-Out, Shift-In)

6.01 The printed graphics extension feature provides 32 additional graphics that
are obtained by placing the typing unit into the shift-out mode. SO (Shift-Out)
key on the keyboard locks the typing unit, in the shift-out condition until
terminated by sending the function SI (Shift-In) bn the keyboard. In the
shift-out mode the typing unit will print the new set of graphics when keying
capital letters on the keyboard and will print symbols and numeric characters.
The 32 additional graphics feature requires a 8-row typebox where the top two
rows contain the additional type pallets. A 7-row typebox is available where
only 16 additional characters are needed. These additional graphics are not
standardized and each typebox can be filled to the customer's need.

6.02 In the shift-out mode the no. 7 code level positioning clutch is locked
spacing (Figure 35) which positions the typebox to the 0, 1, 4, and 5 rows,
refer to Figure 28. When the no. 7 positioning clutch is spacing, only the
characters in the above mentioned rows in the typebox can be printed. Refer to
Figure 61 to understand the operational sequence that follows.

- (1) The SO key on the keyboard is selected.
- (2) The function bar in slot 30 operates and pulls back the associated
  function lever and locks in the latched position.
- (3) The function lever operates the shift fork mechanism which moves the
  function box slide to the left. (The slide is spring loaded to the right as
  viewed from the front.)
- (4) The function box slide drives the shift-out slide to the left. (The
  shift-out slide is spring loaded to the right as viewed from the front.)
- (5) When the shift-out slide is driven to the left, the no. 7 codebar bail
  with plate is disengaged from the post that is on the shift-out slide. This
  action uncouples the no. 7 codebar bail which when coupled, operates the no. 7
  clutch trip link.

6.03 The results of the above operation are the no. 7 clutch trip link does not
move back to trip the no. 7 clutch to go marking; therefore, the no. 7 clutch is
in the spacing condition. The function box has a contact assembly which is
operated by the shift-out function lever to indicate the shift-out mode and its
duration by a lamp on the control panel.

6.04 The shift-out mode is terminated by sending a SI function from the
keyboard. The SI function releases the function lever in slot no. 30, releasing
the shift fork-mechanism and moves the slides to the right. When the slides are
to the right the two bails are coupled by the post on the shift-out slide and
the typing unit is in the normal printing condition; which permits printing and
spacing on lower case characters.

\[Figure]

- NO. 7 CLUTCH TRIP LINK POST
- NO. 7 CODEBAR BAIL
- SHIFT-OUT SLIDE
- LEFT SIDE FRAME
- FUNCTION BOX SLIDE
- FUNCTION LEVER (Slot No. 30)
- SHIFT FORK MECHANISM
- POST (Part of Shift-Out Slide)
- APERTURE
- NO. 7 CODEBAR BAIL WITH PLATE

(Top View - Left Front)

Figure 61 - Shift-Out Mechanism Operated

*Page 64:*

### B. Visual Aid With Graphic Extension

6.05 The visual aid modification kit (Figure 62) is a guide to assist the
attendant in using a typing unit with the printed graphic extension feature
described above. This feature consists of an overlay with a pictorial
representation of the keyboard and holder that adheres magnetically to the front
cover of the typing unit.

6.06 The overlay (Figure 63) is plastic with a nonreflective surface that is
receptive to printing and lettering, so that the additional graphic symbols and
characters can be placed in their respective positions by the customer. With the
visual aid in place, the attendant can visualize which key to depress by
relating the position of the desired character or symbol to the keyboard letters
printed on the overlay.

### C. Character Received Contact Mechanism

6.07 The character received contacts are mounted in back of the selector and
provides a set of contacts which close and open on every selector cycle to
permit recognition of the selector rotation for each character received. The
character received contacts (Figure 64) are used in system applications that are
defined by the customer's requirements. When these contacts are connected to
external circuits, the contacts provide electrical pulses which may be
synchronized with code reading contacts for circuit control. An example would be
to inform the sending station or an internal circuit that a character signal has
been received and acted upon. These contacts are available in normally open or
normally closed (standard) arrangements.

6.08 The operation of the contact assembly is accomplished when the operating
lever which follows the periphery of the existing selector clutch disc, pushes
and releases the contact plunger, opening and closing the contacts. For each
half revolution of the clutch disc, the selector completes one cycle and
operates the contact mechanism. The contact closure (normally closed) will occur
after the start of the no. 1 information pulse and will open before the end of
the no. 7 pulse for a 10-unit code with unity stop pulse. When the selector is
in the stop position, the contact points will remain open.

6.09 The contacts are gold plated and rated for 48 volts de maximum at 10 ma
resistive load. For maximum contact life, the customer should provide contact
protection circuitry suited to the designed load. These are mechanical contacts
and bounce can occur; therefore, associated circuitry should be designed
accordingly.

\[Figure]

- FRONT COVER
- HOLDER
- OVERLAY

Figure 62 - Visual Aid Modification Kit

*Page 65:*

\[Figure]

- OVERLAY
- OVERLAY WITH ADDED GRAPHICS

Figure 63 - Visual Aid Overlay

- CLUTCH DISC
- COVER
- CONTACTS
- PLUNGER
- CONTACT MECHANISM
- OPERATING LEVER

(Right Side View)

Figure 64 - Selector Mechanism With Character Received Contacts

*Pages 66–68:*

TABLE OF FUNCTION BAR CONFIGURATIONS

|                                     | 11| 10| 9 | 8 | 7 | 6 | 5 | 4 | 3 | 2 | 1 |
| ----------------------------------- | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | - | - |
| NUL                                 |   |   |   | S | S | S | S | S | S | S | S |
| SOH                                 |   |   |   | M | S | S | S | S | S | S | M |
| STX                                 |   |   |   | M | S | S | S | S | S | M | S |
| SYN                                 |   |   |   | M | S | S | M | S | M | M | S |
| ETB                                 |   |   |   | S | S | S | M | S | M | M | M |
| CAN                                 |   |   |   | S | S | S | M | M | S | S | S |
| EM                                  |   |   |   | M | S | S | M | M | S | S | M |
| SUB                                 |   |   |   | M | S | S | M | M | S | M | S |
| FS                                  |   |   |   | M | S | S | M | M | M | S | S |
| GS                                  |   |   |   | S | S | S | M | M | M | S | M |
| RS                                  |   |   |   | S | S | S | M | M | M | M | S |
| US                                  |   |   |   | M | S | S | M | M | M | M | M |
| NEW LINE (LF & VT) **               |   |   | S |   | S | S | S | M | S | M |   |
| ESC                                 |   |   |   | S | S | S | M | M | S | M | M |
| ESC HOLD                            |   |   | M |   | S | M | S |   |   |   |   |
| ESC TERMINATE                       |   |   | M |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |
| ETX                                 |   |   | S | S | S | S | S | S | S | M | M |
| EOT                                 |   |   | S | M | S | S | S | S | M | S | S |
| ENQ                                 |   |   | S | S | S | S | S | S | M | S | M |
| ACK                                 |   |   | S | S | S | S | S | S | M | M | S |
| BEL                                 |   |   | S | M | S | S | S | S | M | M | M |
| BS                                  |   |   | S | M | S | S | S | M | S | S | S |
| HT                                  |   |   | S | S | S | S | S | M | S | S | M |
| LF                                  |   |   | S | S | S | S | S | M | S | M | S |
| VT                                  |   |   | S | M | S | S | S | M | S | M | M |
| FF                                  |   |   | S | S | S | S | S | M | M | S | S |
| CR                                  |   |   | S | M | S | S | S | M | M | S | M |
| SO                                  |   |   | S | M | S | S | S | M | M | M | S |
| SI                                  |   |   | S | S | S | S | S | M | M | M | M |
| DLE                                 |   |   | S | M | S | S | M | S | S | S | S |
| DC1                                 |   |   | S | S | S | S | M | S | S | S | M |
| DC2                                 |   |   | S | S | S | S | M | S | S | M | S |
| DC3                                 |   |   | S | M | S | S | M | S | S | M | M |
| DC4                                 |   |   | S | S | S | S | M | S | M | S | S |
| NAK                                 |   |   | S | M | S | S | M | S | M | S | M |
| PRINT & SPACE SUPPRESS FUNCTION *** |   |   | S |   | S | S |   |   |   |   |   |
| CR & FF ***                         |   |   | S |   | S | S | S | M | M | S |   |
| PRINT & SUPPRESS SHIFT-OUT ***      |   |   |   |   | M | M |   |   |   |   |   |
| PRINT SUPPRESS NO. 1 ***            |   |   | S |   | S | M |   |   |   |   |   |
| PRINT SUPPRESS NO. 2 ***            |   |   | S |   | M |   |   |   |   |   |   |
| CR & FF (SPECIAL) ***               |   |   |   |   | S | S | S | M | M | S |   |
| LF & VT (SPECIAL) ***               |   |   |   |   | S | S | S | M | S | M |   |
| TILDE (OVERSCORE)                   |   |   | S |   | M | M | M | M | M | M | S |
| HYPHEN (TIME)                       |   |   | S |   | S | M | S | M | M | S | M |
| PRINT & SPACE SUPPRESS DELETE       |   |   |   | M | M | M | M | M | M | M | M |
| BLACK                               |   | S | M | M | S | M | M | S | M | S | S |
| RED                                 |   | S | M | S | S | M | M | S | S | M | M |
| HORIZ TAB SET                       |   | S | M | M | S | M | M | S | S | S | M |
| HORIZ TAB CLEAR                     |   | S | M | M | S | M | M | S | S | M | S |
| VERT TAB SET                        |   | S | M | S | S | M | M | S | M | S | M |
| VERT TAB CLEAR                      |   | S | M | S | S | M | M | S | M | M | S |
| REVERSE LINE FEED                   |   | S | M | M | S | M | M | S | M | M | M |
| HALF REVERSE LINE FEED              |   | S | M | M | S | M | M | M | S | S | S |
| HALF LINE FEED                      |   | S | M | S | S | M | M | M | S | S | M |
| HALF DUPLEX                         |   | S | M | M | S | M | M | M | S | M | M |
| FULL DUPLEX                         |   | S | M | S | S | M | M | M | S | M | S |
| PRINT SUPPRESS (ESCAPE ^)           |   | S | M | M | M | S | M | M | M | M | S |
| PRINT SUPPRESS DISABLE (ESCAPE \)   |   | S | M | S | M | S | M | M | M | S | S |
| AUTO CR & LF (SEE Note)             | S | * | * | * | * | * | * | * | * | * | * |

\*<u>Note</u>: Remove tines where applicable.

\*\*<u>Transcription note</u>: The configuration for “NEW LINE (LF & VT)” is
somewhat unclear. It is in a row with 8 levels, but is poorly aligned and
somewhat larger. Assume it is supposed to have 9 levels, so it matches the
configuration for “LF & VT (SPECIAL)”.

\*\*\*<u>Transcription note</u>: The configurations for “PRINT & SPACE SUPPRESS
FUNCTION” through “LF & VT (SPECIAL)” are somewhat suspect, as they have no
level 1; however they line up neatly with surrounding configurations, so the
transcription is likely correct.
